The President:
For centuries, in peace and in war, in prosperity and in
adversity, Americans have paused
at this time of year to gather
with loved ones and give thanks
for life's blessings.
This week, we carry on this
distinctly American tradition.
All across our country, folks
are coming together to spend
time with family, to catch up
with old friends, to cook and
enjoy a big dinner - and maybe
to watch a little
football in between.
As always, we give thanks for
the kindness of loved ones, for
the joys of the previous year,
and for the pride we feel in our
communities and country.
We keep in our thoughts and
prayers the many families
marking this Thanksgiving with
an empty seat - saved for a son
or daughter, or husband or wife,
stationed in harm's way.
And we say a special thanks for
the sacrifices those men and
women in uniform are making for
our safety and freedom, and for
all those Americans who enrich
the lives of our communities
through acts of kindness,
generosity and service.
But as much as we all have to be
thankful for, we also know that
this year millions of Americans
are facing very
difficult economic times.
Many have lost jobs in this
recession -
the worst in generations.
Many more are struggling to
afford health care premiums and
house payments, let alone to
save for an
education or
retirement.
Too many are wondering if the
dream of a middle class life -
that American Dream - is
slipping away.
It's the worry I hear from folks
across the country; good,
hard-working people doing the
best they can for their families
- but fearing that their best
just isn't good enough.
These are not strangers.
They are our family, our
friends, and our neighbors.
Their struggles must be our
concern.
That's why we passed the
Recovery Act that cut taxes for
95 percent of working people and
for small businesses - and that
extended unemployment benefits
and health coverage for millions
of Americans who lost their jobs
in this turmoil.
That's why we are reforming the
health care system so that
middle-class families have
affordable insurance that cannot
be denied because of a
pre-existing condition or taken
away because you happen
to get sick.
We've worked to stem the tide of
foreclosures and to stop the
decline in home values.
We're making it easier to save
for retirement and more
affordable to send a son or
daughter to college.
The investments we have made and
tough steps we have taken have
helped break the back of the
recession, and now our economy
is finally growing again.
But as I said when I took
office, job recovery from this
crisis would not come easily or
quickly.
Though the job losses we were
experiencing earlier this year
have slowed dramatically, we're
still not creating enough new
jobs each month to make up for
the ones we're losing.
And no matter what the
economists say, for families and
communities across the country,
this recession will not end
until we completely turn that
tide.
So we've made progress.
But we cannot rest - and my
administration will not rest -
until we have revived this
economy and rebuilt it stronger
than before; until we are
creating jobs and opportunities
for middle class families; until
we have moved beyond the cycles
of boom and bust - of reckless
risk and speculation - that led
us to so much crisis and pain
these past few years.
Next week, I'll be meeting with
owners of large and small
businesses, labor leaders, and
non-for-profits from across the
country, to talk about the
additional steps we can take to
help spur job creation.
I will work with the Congress to
enact them quickly.
And it is my fervent hope - and
my heartfelt expectation - that
next Thanksgiving we will be
able to celebrate the fact that
many of those who have lost
their jobs are back at work, and
that as a nation we will have
come through these difficult
storms stronger and wiser and
grateful to have reached
a brighter day.
Thank you, God bless you, and
from my family to yours,
Happy Thanksgiving.